Taiwan, officially the Republic of China (ROC), is a state in East Asia. Neighbouring states include 
the People's Republic of China (PRC) to the north-west, Japan to the north-east, and the Philippines 
to the south. The island of Taiwan has an area of 35,808 square kilometers (13,826 sq mi), with 
mountain ranges dominating the eastern two-thirds and plains in the western third, where its highly 
urbanised population is concentrated. Taipei is the capital and largest metropolitan area. Other major 
cities include Kaohsiung, Taichung, Tainan and Taoyuan. With 23.7 million inhabitants, Taiwan is among 
the most densely populated states, and is the most populous state and largest economy that is not a 
member of the United Nations (UN).

Taiwanese indigenous peoples settled the island of Taiwan around 6,000 years ago. In the 17th century, 
Dutch rule opened the island to mass Han immigration. After the brief Kingdom of Tungning in parts of 
the southern and western areas of the island, the island was annexed in 1683 by the Qing dynasty of 
China, and ceded to the Empire of Japan in 1895. Following the surrender of Japan in 1945, the Republic 
of China, which had overthrown and succeeded the Qing in 1911, took control of Taiwan on behalf of the 
World War II Allies. The resumption of the Chinese Civil War led to the loss of the mainland to the 
Communist Party of China and the flight of the ROC government to Taiwan in 1949. Although the ROC 
government continued to claim to be the legitimate representative of China, since 1950 its effective 
jurisdiction has been limited to Taiwan and numerous smaller islands. In the early 1960s, Taiwan 
entered a period of rapid economic growth and industrialisation called the "Taiwan Miracle". In the 
late 1980s and early 1990s, the ROC transitioned from a one-party military dictatorship to a multi-party 
democracy with a semi-presidential system.

Taiwan's export-oriented industrial economy is the 21st-largest in the world, with major contributions
from steel, machinery, electronics and chemicals manufacturing. Taiwan is a developed country, ranking 
15th in GDP per capita. It is ranked highly in terms of political and civil liberties, education, 
health care and human development.